My design process uses top-down design model.

First step: Requirements

The major objectives of the design are
cost
performance
power consumption

initial list

functionality: This system is designed for robot dogs that follows it's owner, not every human being. 
The system should be able to follow the owner constantly and give feedback when it is not possible(power status,
distance). Also, owner should be able to change the owner status to another person.

user interface: The display should have at least 1280x720 resolution for readibility purposes. The device's settings
should be controlled by smartphone. The display's interface should have understanable UX.

performance: The user interface should perform smoothly. Upon power-up, a display should take no more than
one second to appear, and the system should be able to verify it's owner lower than 5 seconds. 

Cost: The selling cost of the product should be no more than 499 turkish liras.

Physical size and weight: The device should be able to carried over easily and the physical size of the product
should be 110 cm (at shoulder level), 60 cm (on 4 leg)

Power consumption: The device should run for at least 3 hours on full charged capacity

Form:

Name: Robodog
Purpose: A robot in the form of a dog that follows its owner
Inputs: charge input, Power button, hanger sensor, Bluetooth receiver, Distance sensors
Output: Speakers, Display
Functions: Uses distance sensors for obstacle; always displays current charge, walk capacity and
owner status, can give feedback with speakers, follows owner, be able to carry bag
Performance: Updates screen within 0.25 seconds and it have capability of walking in 5kmh, be able to carry 5kg bag
Manufactiring cost: 300 turkish liras
power: 35000 mWh based on 5V
physical size and weight: No more than 30cmx80cm, 8kg


Specificiation 
- Data received from bluetooth receiver
- Data received from distance sensor
- Bluetooth signal is clean
- User interface(smartphone)
- System has enough charge capacity for running
- Background actions required to keep the system running, such as operating sensors and walking componoents, bluetooth connection
checker